埃克森美孚几乎放弃了其价值1万亿美元的石油发现

Exxon Almost Walked Away From Its $1 Trillion Oil Discovery

A few geoscientists pushed a reluctant energy giant to take a chance on Guyana.
一些地球科学家推动一个不情愿的能源巨头在圭亚那冒险。

Scott Dyksterhuis was convinced. Or as convinced as you can be when predicting what lies more than 3 miles beneath the seabed. The then 32-year-old geoscientist for Exxon Mobil Corp. figured there was a good chance a vast trove of oil lay buried off the coast of Guyana, near where the Atlantic Ocean meets the Caribbean Sea. Now came the hard part. He had to persuade his bosses to drill a well that would prove it. “It was high-risk,” ­Dyksterhuis says. “But Guyana was a casino you wanted to play in because when you win, the profits are so high.”
斯科特·迪克斯特豪斯（Scott Dyksterhuis）对此深信不疑。或者，在预测海床下 3 英里以上的情况时，您可以尽可能地确信。当时32岁的埃克森美孚公司的地球科学家。认为很有可能在圭亚那海岸附近埋藏着大量的石油，靠近大西洋与加勒比海的交汇处。现在是困难的部分。他不得不说服他的老板钻一口井来证明这一点。“这是高风险的，”Dyksterhuis说。“但圭亚那是一个你想玩的赌场，因为当你赢了，利润就会很高。

Dyksterhuis.Photographer: Lisa Maree Williams for Bloomberg Markets
迪克斯特赫伊斯。摄影师：Lisa Maree Williams for Bloomberg Markets
In late 2013 hunting for oil in Guyana was among Exxon’s lowest priorities. Companies had drilled more than 40 dry holes in the region. The target formation—named Liza, after a local fish—was under a mile of water, and drilling it would cost at least $175 million. Even Dyksterhuis estimated there was only a 1 in 5 chance of success. But if he was right, it would open an oil frontier, proving a theory that the same geology behind Venezuela’s reserves, the world’s largest, extended across the north coast of South America. Many at Exxon had no interest in making that bet. Neither did much of the rest of the oil industry.
2013年底，在圭亚那寻找石油是埃克森美孚最不优先考虑的事情之一。公司在该地区钻了40多个干孔。这个目标地层以当地一条鱼的名字命名为Liza，位于一英里深的水下，钻探它的成本至少为1.75亿美元。甚至Dyksterhuis也估计只有五分之一的成功机会。但是，如果他是对的，它将开辟一个石油前沿，证明一个理论，即委内瑞拉世界上最大的储量背后的相同地质延伸到南美洲的北海岸。埃克森美孚的许多人对下这个赌注没有兴趣。石油工业的其他大部分公司也没有。

Today, Liza is the world’s biggest oil discovery in a generation. Exxon controls a block that holds 11 billion barrels of recoverable oil, worth nearly $1 trillion at current prices. The find has transformed Guyana from one of South America’s poorest countries into one that will pump more crude per person than Saudi Arabia or Kuwait by 2027. Guyana is on track to overtake Venezuela as South America’s second-­largest oil producer, after Brazil.
今天，Liza是一代人以来世界上最大的石油发现。埃克森美孚控制着一个拥有110亿桶可采石油的区块，按当前价格计算，价值近1万亿美元。这一发现使圭亚那从南美洲最贫穷的国家之一转变为到2027年人均原油产量将超过沙特阿拉伯或科威特的国家。圭亚那有望超过委内瑞拉，成为仅次于巴西的南美洲第二大石油生产国。

Guyana has become the bedrock of Exxon’s post-Covid corporate revival. The Texas oil giant has a 45% share of a field that costs less than $35 a barrel to produce, making it one of the most profitable outside of OPEC. With crude currently trading at $85 a barrel, the oil field would make money even if the transition from fossil fuels caused demand to collapse and prices dropped by half.
圭亚那已成为埃克森美孚后 Covid 企业复兴的基石。这家德克萨斯州石油巨头拥有该油田45%的股份，该油田的生产成本低于每桶35美元，使其成为欧佩克以外最赚钱的油田之一。原油目前的交易价格为每桶85美元，即使从化石燃料的过渡导致需求崩溃和价格下跌一半，油田也会赚钱。

The untold story of the Guyana find’s origins—based on interviews with more than a dozen people involved in the Liza well, most of whom have since left Exxon—reveals some surprising truths about oil’s past and future. It shows how others in the business overestimated the shift from oil to renewables. Only three years ago, Exxon lost a battle over board seats with activist investors who argued it wasn’t doing enough to prepare for the transition. Exxon stuck to its core business. “When everyone else was pulling back, we were leaning in,” says Liam Mallon, president of Exxon’s production division. Since Guyana production began at the end of 2019, the company’s shares have more than doubled, the highest return among its supermajor peers.
圭亚那发现的起源的不为人知的故事——基于对参与Liza井的十几个人的采访，其中大多数人已经离开了埃克森美孚——揭示了关于石油过去和未来的一些令人惊讶的真相。它显示了业内其他人如何高估了从石油到可再生能源的转变。就在三年前，埃克森美孚在与激进投资者的董事会席位之争中输掉了一场战斗，他们认为埃克森美孚在为过渡做准备方面做得不够。埃克森美孚坚持其核心业务。“当其他人都在撤退时，我们却在靠拢，”埃克森美孚生产部门总裁利亚姆·马龙（Liam Mallon）说。自 2019 年底圭亚那开始生产以来，该公司的股价已经上涨了一倍多，是其超级主要同行中回报率最高的。

Exxon Eclipses Rivals 埃克森美孚（Exxon）黯然失色 竞争对手
Total return since Exxon said it began oil production in Guyana(Dec. 20, 2019, to July 15, 2024)
埃克森美孚表示在圭亚那开始石油生产以来的总回报率（2019年12月20日至2024年7月15日）

Source: Bloomberg 资料来源：彭博社

This history suggests the difficulty of relying on market forces to usher in the end of fossil fuels. The Green movement had hoped that improved technology would help solar, wind and other renewables supplant increasingly hard-to-find oil. Environmentalists now worry that Exxon will earn a windfall from a slower energy transition, while others bear the cost of drilling’s harm to the climate and Guyana’s ecology. “Exxon is polluting the ocean and atmosphere without having to pay for the damage,” says Melinda Janki, a Guyanese lawyer who’s worked on international environmental protection. (Exxon says it invests in technology to protect the environment and meets or exceeds regulatory requirements.)
这段历史表明，依靠市场力量来迎接化石燃料的终结是困难的。绿色运动曾希望改进的技术能够帮助太阳能、风能和其他可再生能源取代越来越难找到的石油。环保主义者现在担心，埃克森美孚公司将从较慢的能源转型中获得意外之财，而其他人则承担钻探对气候和圭亚那生态造成的损害。“埃克森美孚正在污染海洋和大气，而不必为损害付出代价，”曾从事国际环境保护工作的圭亚那律师梅琳达·扬基（Melinda Janki）说。（埃克森美孚表示，它投资于技术以保护环境，并达到或超过监管要求。

Exxon’s rivals no doubt have aching regret. Almost 30 other companies, including Chevron Corp., passed up the chance to buy into the Guyana discovery. Shell Plc, previously a 50% partner, walked away. Chevron is now paying $53 billion for Hess Corp., one of Exxon’s two partners in Guyana, which has a 30% stake in the project. Exxon this year filed an arbitration case against Hess, claiming it has a right of first refusal over the stake. (Hess says that right doesn’t apply in a merger.)
埃克森美孚的竞争对手无疑感到遗憾。包括雪佛龙公司（Chevron Corp.）在内的近30家其他公司放弃了购买圭亚那发现的机会。壳牌公司（Shell Plc）以前是50%的合作伙伴，现在离开了。雪佛龙现在为埃克森美孚在圭亚那的两个合作伙伴之一赫斯公司支付了530亿美元，该公司拥有该项目30%的股份。埃克森美孚今年对赫斯提起了仲裁诉讼，声称它对股权拥有优先购买权。（赫斯说，这项权利不适用于合并。

But the tale of the Guyana discovery isn’t about taking swashbuckling risks for a huge payoff. Exxon, it turns out, is as much a financial engineering company as an oil explorer. It hedged its bets, reduced its exposure and bought itself an option to make a fortune on an unlikely outcome.
但是，圭亚那发现的故事并不是要冒着巨大的风险来获得巨大的回报。事实证明，埃克森美孚既是一家金融工程公司，也是一家石油勘探公司。它对冲了赌注，减少了风险敞口，并为自己购买了一个选项，在一个不太可能的结果中发财。

That strategy dates to a key moment in 2013. Exxon’s top geoscientists concluded that Dyksterhuis and his colleagues hadn’t made the case that drilling Liza was worth the risk. Dyksterhuis was downbeat. If it didn’t drill, Exxon would have to hand the Stabroek block, or concession—its license to explore and drill the territory—back to Guyana’s government within months. (Stabroek was the former name of Guyana’s capital, Georgetown.)
这一战略可以追溯到2013年的一个关键时刻。埃克森美孚的顶级地球科学家得出结论，Dyksterhuis和他的同事们没有证明钻探Liza是值得的。Dyksterhuis对此感到沮丧。如果埃克森美孚不钻探，埃克森美孚将不得不在几个月内将Stabroek区块或特许权（勘探和钻探该领土的许可证）交还给圭亚那政府。（Stabroek是圭亚那首都乔治敦的旧称。

In the hallway after a meeting, Rudy Dismuke, a ­commercial adviser, pulled one of the geoscientists aside. “Would you support Liza if we could drill it for free?” he asked. “Of course,” the geoscientist replied.
在一次会议结束后的走廊里，商业顾问鲁迪·迪斯穆克（Rudy Dismuke）把其中一位地球科学家拉到一边。“如果我们能免费钻探它，你会支持丽莎吗？”他问道。“当然，”地球科学家回答说。

And so a small group of lower- and midlevel employees figured out a way to drill for nothing. Or close to it.
因此，一小群中低层员工想出了一种不劳而获的方法。或接近它。

Workers in Guyana preparing casing pipes for oil rigs at sea.Photographer: Rose Marie Cromwell
圭亚那的工人正在为海上石油钻井平台准备套管。摄影师：Rose Marie Cromwell
Like many geoscientists Rod Limbert knew that the source rock for Venezuela’s oil—the La Luna formation—extended under the Atlantic into maritime territory held by Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana. The straight-talking Australian became fascinated with an onshore discovery in Suriname in the 1960s, when villagers accidentally found what became a billion-barrel oil field while drilling for water in a schoolyard.
像许多地球科学家一样，罗德·林伯特（Rod Limbert）知道委内瑞拉石油的源岩——La Luna地层——延伸到大西洋之下，进入圭亚那、苏里南和法属圭亚那控制的海域。这位直言不讳的澳大利亚人对1960年代苏里南的一个陆上发现着迷，当时村民在校园里钻探水时意外发现了一个十亿桶的油田。

Limbert thought the schoolyard’s oil had originated off Guyana’s continental shelf and migrated more than 100 miles onshore over millions of years. He took the idea to the Exxon team responsible for entering new basins in mid-1997. “They had a picture of a downward-pointing thumb at the end of their presentation,” Limbert says. He contacted Guyana’s government about acquiring drilling rights anyway. “I just didn’t tell anyone,” he says.
林伯特认为校园里的石油起源于圭亚那的大陆架，并在数百万年的时间里向陆地迁移了100多英里。1997年年中，他把这个想法告诉了负责进入新盆地的埃克森美孚团队。“在演讲结束时，他们有一张拇指向下的图片，”Limbert 说。无论如何，他都联系了圭亚那政府，希望获得钻探权。“我只是没有告诉任何人，”他说。

Limbert.Photographer: Lisa Maree Williams for Bloomberg Markets
林伯特。摄影师：Lisa Maree Williams for Bloomberg Markets
In 1997, Guyana was one of the poorest countries in South America, still suffering from the socialist and isolationist policies of strongman Forbes Burnham, who rose to power soon after independence from the UK in 1966. Limbert and two colleagues flew from Houston to Georgetown, to acquire old well logs and discuss the potential for drilling rights with the Guyana Geology and Mines Commission. “The ground floor was literally the ground floor,” Limbert says. “By that I mean the desks and chairs were on the dirt.”
1997年，圭亚那是南美洲最贫穷的国家之一，仍然受到强人福布斯·伯纳姆（Forbes Burnham）的社会主义和孤立主义政策的影响，伯纳姆在1966年从英国独立后不久就上台执政。Limbert和两名同事从休斯顿飞往乔治敦，收购旧井日志，并与圭亚那地质和矿业委员会讨论钻探权的潜力。“一楼实际上是一楼，”Limbert 说。“我的意思是桌子和椅子都沾满了泥土。”

The Exxon team also met Samuel Hinds, Guyana’s president, who talked mostly about cricket, Guyana’s national pastime. “I wasn’t in any particular hurry to talk about business, because I had no authority to do anything,” Limbert says. On returning to Texas and armed with fresh data, Limbert won permission to begin contract negotiations for exploration rights.
埃克森美孚团队还会见了圭亚那总统塞缪尔·海因兹（Samuel Hinds），他主要谈论板球，这是圭亚那的全国性消遣。“我并不特别急于谈论商业，因为我没有权力做任何事情，”林伯特说。回到德克萨斯州后，带着新的数据，Limbert获得了开始勘探权合同谈判的许可。

Citing the legions of failed wells, Limbert pushed for and won a highly favorable deal. The Stabroek block offered to Exxon was more than 1,000 times bigger than the average oil block in the Gulf of Mexico. It required no upfront payment, and if Exxon struck oil, the company would keep 50% of the profit after deducting costs. It would pay the ­government a royalty of only 1%. Guyana later received heavy criticism for the contract. “I have examined my conscience about it over a period of time, but I don’t feel bad about it,” Limbert says. “It was a complete fit for what we knew and what we didn’t know.”
Limbert 引用了大量失败的油井，推动并赢得了非常有利的交易。提供给埃克森美孚的Stabroek区块比墨西哥湾的平均石油区块大1000多倍。它不需要预付款，如果埃克森美孚开采石油，该公司将保留扣除成本后50%的利润。它只需向政府支付1%的特许权使用费。圭亚那后来因该合同而受到严厉批评。“我已经在一段时间内检查了我的良心，但我对此并不感到难过，”林伯特说。“这完全符合我们所知道的和我们不知道的。”

The deal helped the government in another way. Guyana faced serious border disputes both with Suriname to the east and Venezuela to the west. Aligning with Exxon would mean anyone picking a fight with Guyana would also be picking a fight with the world’s most powerful oil company.
这笔交易以另一种方式帮助了政府。圭亚那与东部的苏里南和西部的委内瑞拉都面临着严重的边界争端。与埃克森美孚结盟意味着任何选择与圭亚那打架的人也会选择与世界上最强大的石油公司打架。

Guyana’s concerns proved valid. Suriname gunboats forced a different oil explorer out of disputed waters between the two countries. Exxon couldn’t work on the block for eight years. When the Suriname conflict was nearing resolution in 2007, Exxon executives realized they’d need to spend money on seismic studies to meet work requirements under the contract. They suggested giving up the block to free up cash for ­higher-priority explorations in Brazil, the Gulf of Mexico and emerging US shale basins.
圭亚那的关切被证明是有道理的。苏里南的炮艇迫使另一艘石油勘探公司离开两国之间的争议水域。埃克森美孚（Exxon）八年都无法在这个区块上工作。当2007年苏里南冲突接近解决时，埃克森美孚的高管们意识到他们需要花钱进行地震研究，以满足合同规定的工作要求。他们建议放弃该区块，以释放现金用于巴西、墨西哥湾和新兴的美国页岩盆地的更高优先级勘探。

Dismuke, a Texas-schooled engineer who was Exxon’s Western Hemisphere commercial adviser at the time, took one look at the contract with Guyana and couldn’t believe his eyes. The deal Limbert negotiated had a huge upside. Dismuke and a colleague suggested a farm-out deal that would hand a portion of the block to a company willing to pay for the seismic study. Exxon’s management approved the idea and sold 25% of Stabroek to Shell in 2008. Exxon and Shell spent the next three years interpreting the seismic waves bounced off underground rock layers to understand the region’s geology. The early data was promising, showing indications of fossil fuels.
迪斯穆克是一名在德克萨斯州毕业的工程师，当时是埃克森美孚的西半球商业顾问，他看了一眼与圭亚那的合同，简直不敢相信自己的眼睛。林伯特谈判达成的交易有巨大的上升空间。Dismuke和一位同事提出了一项农场外包交易，将部分区块交给一家愿意支付地震研究费用的公司。埃克森美孚的管理层批准了这个想法，并于2008年将Stabroek 25%的股份出售给壳牌。埃克森美孚和壳牌花了三年时间解释从地下岩层反弹的地震波，以了解该地区的地质情况。早期数据很有希望，显示出化石燃料的迹象。

Featured in the August/September issue of Bloomberg MarketsIllustration: Raven Jiang for Bloomberg Markets
刊登在Bloomberg Markets的8月/9月刊中 插图：Raven 江为彭博市场
But this data also confirmed many geoscientists’ worst fear: a complete absence of structural traps. These formations are geological faults or impenetrable bands of rock that act like dams, capturing oil as it seeps through layers of sediment over millions of years. Without a solid trap, oil can’t accumulate in large enough quantities to be commercially viable. Guyana instead had stratigraphic traps, the most risky of all geological formations for an oil explorer. Although they can be secure, stratigraphic traps are subtle and very difficult to analyze on seismic charts. They often contain what’s known as a “thief zone” from which oil can escape.
但这些数据也证实了许多地球科学家最担心的事情：完全没有结构陷阱。这些地层是地质断层或难以穿透的岩石带，它们就像大坝一样，在数百万年的时间里从沉积物层中渗出时捕获石油。如果没有固体捕集器，石油就无法积累足够多的量以达到商业可行性。相反，圭亚那有地层圈闭，对于石油勘探者来说，这是所有地质构造中最危险的。虽然它们是安全的，但地层圈闭是微妙的，很难在地震图上分析。它们通常包含所谓的“盗贼区”，石油可以从中逸出。

By the late 2000s, however, the oil industry was warming to such formations. Crude was trading for more than $100 a barrel, so big discoveries meant big profits. Technology was improving. Shell decided to raise its stake in the Stabroek block to 50%. Around the same time, two geoscientists at APA Corp., a small explorer in Houston then called Apache, were watching closely. Tim Chisholm studied Venezuela for Exxon in the 1990s, and Pablo Eisner had worked the region for Repsol SA. The pair wanted a slice of Stabroek, but when that wasn’t an option, they led Apache into Suriname instead.
然而，到 2000 年代后期，石油工业正在向这种地层升温。原油的交易价格超过每桶100美元，因此重大发现意味着巨额利润。技术在不断进步。壳牌决定将其在Stabroek区块的股份提高到50%。大约在同一时间，休斯敦的一家小型探险公司APA公司的两名地球科学家正在密切关注。蒂姆·奇斯霍尔姆（Tim Chisholm）在1990年代为埃克森（Exxon）研究委内瑞拉，巴勃罗·艾斯纳（Pablo Eisner）曾在雷普索尔公司（Repsol SA）工作。两人想要一块Stabroek，但当这不是一种选择时，他们转而带领阿帕奇进入苏里南。

Before they could drill a well, Apache management had a change of heart and cut its exploration team. Chisholm and Eisner were laid off within a half-hour of each other. Chisholm went to Hess and Eisner joined CNOOC. Each says they believed they had unfinished business.
在他们能够钻井之前，阿帕奇管理层改变了主意，并削减了勘探团队。奇斯霍尔姆和艾斯纳在半小时内就被解雇了。奇斯霍尔姆去了赫斯，艾斯纳加入了中海油。每个人都说他们认为他们还有未完成的事情。

At Exxon in 2013 one geoscientist in a company of 75,000 people worked full time on Guyana. A trove of data was coming from the Shell-financed seismic studies. Exxon turned to Dyksterhuis, the Australian geoscientist, to help interpret it. He was drawn to the subject in college because it had “every single field of science in it,” including the physics of seismic modeling and the biology of creatures that had died millions of years ago, he says. “And then you go into oil and gas, you’ve got, like, big-dollar decision-making.”
2013年，在埃克森美孚，一家拥有75,000名员工的公司的一名地球科学家全职在圭亚那工作。大量数据来自壳牌资助的地震研究。埃克森美孚求助于澳大利亚地球科学家Dyksterhuis来帮助解释它。他说，他在大学时就被这门学科所吸引，因为它包含了“每一个科学领域”，包括地震建模的物理学和数百万年前死亡的生物的生物学。“然后你进入石油和天然气领域，你有，就像，大笔的决策。

One such decision came soon after Dyksterhuis arrived in Houston from Melbourne. Exxon, which by then had held Stabroek for more than a decade, had a matter of months to decide whether to drill an 8-inch-diameter hole somewhere in an area the size of Massachusetts.
在Dyksterhuis从墨尔本抵达休斯顿后不久，就做出了这样的决定。埃克森美孚（Exxon）当时已经持有Stabroek十多年，它有几个月的时间来决定是否在马萨诸塞州大小的某个地方钻一个直径为8英寸的孔。

Signs pointed to no. Exxon was more focused on established oil provinces, and Shell was souring on the region after drilling in French Guiana didn’t pan out. Dyksterhuis started analyzing two-dimensional seismic data shot about five years earlier. One prospect, Liza, stood out. The readings showed fluid. But what kind? Water or oil? The uncertainty prompted constant challenges from his bosses.
迹象表明没有。埃克森美孚更专注于已建立的石油省份，而壳牌在法属圭亚那的钻探没有成功后，对该地区感到不满。Dyksterhuis大约在五年前开始分析拍摄的二维地震数据。一位名叫丽莎（Liza）的潜在客户脱颖而出。读数显示流畅。但是什么样的呢？水还是油？这种不确定性促使他的老板不断提出挑战。

Using complex computer modeling, Dyksterhuis combined more than 300 3D seismic images to determine it was likely oil sitting on top of water. “The more I worked it, the more I was, like, ‘There’s something going on here,’ ” Dyksterhuis says. Toward the end of 2013, he and two colleagues presented their findings to more than a dozen of Exxon’s top geoscientists.
使用复杂的计算机建模，Dyksterhuis结合了300多张3D地震图像，以确定它可能是位于水面上的石油。“我工作得越多，我就越觉得，'这里发生了什么事，'”Dyksterhuis说。到2013年底，他和两位同事向埃克森美孚的十几位顶级地球科学家展示了他们的发现。

The good news was that Liza had a “pay zone” 90 meters (295 feet) thick packed with porous sand that fluids could move through very easily. They estimated it could contain 890 million barrels of recoverable oil, worth almost $1 billion at the time. Their high-side estimate was twice as big. The bad news was there was only a 22% chance of success, mainly because Liza was a stratigraphic trap. It wasn’t enough to win the bosses’ approval, and the trio left discouraged.
好消息是，丽莎有一个90米（295英尺）厚的“支付区”，里面装满了多孔沙子，流体可以很容易地通过。他们估计它可能包含8.9亿桶可采石油，当时价值近10亿美元。他们的高边估计是两倍。坏消息是只有22%的成功几率，主要是因为丽莎是一个地层陷阱。这还不足以赢得老板的认可，三人灰心丧气地离开了。

Dismuke, who sat at the back of the meeting, saw it differently. “I thought, if this hits and the trap holds, then I’ve got 6 million more acres to explore under a very good contract,” he says. He made a plan similar to the approach in 2008: reduce the financial downside by finding partners who would disproportionately pay for the well, in return for a stake in the block. Of course, Exxon would now be far richer if it hadn’t laid off that risk. Mallon, the Exxon oil production chief, says it would have been inappropriate to bet hundreds of millions of dollars on a single well, given the company’s many other opportunities. “You can’t sit as an armchair quarter­back,” he says. “Was it right or wrong? It was the decision based on what we knew at the time.”
坐在会议后面的迪斯穆克对此有不同的看法。“我想，如果这击中了陷阱，那么根据一份非常好的合同，我还有600万英亩的土地可以勘探，”他说。他制定了一个类似于2008年方法的计划：通过寻找愿意不成比例地支付油井费用的合作伙伴来减少财务上的负面影响，以换取该区块的股份。当然，如果埃克森美孚没有降低这种风险，它现在会更加富有。埃克森美孚石油生产主管马龙表示，鉴于该公司还有许多其他机会，在一口井上押注数亿美元是不合适的。“你不能坐在扶手椅上担任四分卫，”他说。“这是对还是错？这是根据我们当时所知道的情况做出的决定。

Management approved, and Exxon quickly set up a data room at its Greenspoint office in Houston, inviting about 30 oil companies. Only about 20 showed up. Geoscientists from each interested party got a daylong presentation from the Exxon team and a second day to analyze the data. Hess was the last to come through. Chisholm grilled Dyksterhuis for more than two hours. “He did a very good job of, I would say, not overselling it,” Chisholm said in a 2020 lecture. “That was very critical to me believing. He had passion for what it was.”
管理层批准了，埃克森美孚迅速在其位于休斯顿的Greenspoint办公室设立了一个数据室，邀请了大约30家石油公司。只有大约 20 人出现。每个感兴趣的各方的地球科学家都从埃克森美孚团队那里获得了为期一天的演讲，并在第二天分析了数据。赫斯是最后一个进来的。Chisholm 烤了 Dyksterhuis 两个多小时。“我会说，他做得很好，没有夸大其词，”奇斯霍尔姆在 2020 年的一次演讲中说。“这对我来说非常关键，因为我相信。他对它充满热情。

In mid-2014, as Hess was considering entering the block, Shell dropped a bombshell: After six years of paying for seismic data, the Anglo-Dutch supermajor wanted out. The decision was “part of a broader groupwide review of our frontier exploration portfolio,” the company said in response to questions. Exxon now had 100% of Stabroek and only weeks before it had to inform the Guyana government whether or not it planned to drill.
2014年年中，当赫斯考虑进入该区块时，壳牌投下了一颗重磅炸弹：在为地震数据付费六年后，这家英荷超级巨头想要退出。该决定是“对我们前沿勘探投资组合的更广泛集团审查的一部分，”该公司在回答问题时表示。埃克森美孚现在拥有Stabroek 100%的股份，就在几周前，它不得不通知圭亚那政府是否计划进行钻探。

Within Hess, Guyana was a tough sell, but the company agreed to take a 30% stake. “I bet my career on it,” Chisholm says. “I would have definitely been fired if it had not worked.”
在赫斯内部，圭亚那是一个艰难的出售，但该公司同意持有30%的股份。“我把我的职业生涯押在上面，”奇斯霍尔姆说。“如果它不起作用，我肯定会被解雇。”

Eisner, who’d coveted Guyana since working with Chisholm at Apache, was now working at CNOOC. “Everybody was offered Stabroek, but you need a maverick, big-headed geologist banging the table, even breaking the table to say, ‘This is good,’ ” he says. “At CNOOC, that was me.” Eisner convinced his bosses, and CNOOC took a 25% stake. Exxon’s share of Stabroek was now 45%, but crucially, the two newcomers agreed to fund most of the well cost. With Exxon’s own money now largely protected, management gave the go-ahead to drill Liza.
自从在阿帕奇（Apache）与奇斯霍尔姆（Chisholm）合作以来，艾斯纳就一直觊觎圭亚那，现在在中海油工作。他说：“每个人都得到了Stabroek的邀请，但你需要一个特立独行、大头的地质学家敲打桌子，甚至打破桌子说，'这很好'。在中海油，这就是我。艾斯纳说服了他的老板，中海油获得了25%的股份。埃克森美孚在Stabroek的股份现在为45%，但至关重要的是，这两家新来者同意为大部分油井成本提供资金。由于埃克森美孚的自有资金现在在很大程度上得到了保护，管理层批准了对Liza的钻探。

The well cost $225 million. Though Exxon will end up investing more than $25 billion in the Guyana project, its initial outlay—the one that secured its control of the epic discovery—was pretty close to the zero that the small group of Guyana believers had mentioned back in 2013: less than $100 million, according to people familiar with the matter. Possibly much less.
这口井耗资2.25亿美元。尽管埃克森美孚最终将在圭亚那项目上投资超过250亿美元，但其最初的支出——确保其对这一史诗般的发现的控制权——非常接近圭亚那一小群信徒在2013年提到的零：据知情人士透露，不到1亿美元。可能少得多。

Exxon hired Transocean Ltd.’s Deepwater Champion for the job. The high-spec drill rig was as long as two football fields, carried 10 truckloads of cement and mud, and could drill more than 7 miles deep. With helicopter crews and support vessels at the ready, the well was soon costing more than $1 million a day.
埃克森美孚聘请了Transocean Ltd.的Deepwater Champion担任这项工作。这台高规格的钻机有两个足球场那么长，运载 10 卡车的水泥和泥浆，钻探深度超过 7 英里。随着直升机机组人员和支援船的准备就绪，这口井很快就每天花费超过100万美元。

Inside Exxon it was dubbed “the well from hell.” A section of pipe got stuck, unable to move up or down, compromising the integrity of the entire well. Drillers sheared off the drill bit and filled the bottom section of the well with cement. They lost equipment worth more than $15 million. But the drillers made a side-track hole that saved the project. The night before Liza reached its target, Dyksterhuis and a colleague slept on the floor in separate meeting rooms at Exxon’s newly built Houston campus.
在埃克森美孚内部，它被称为“来自地狱的井”。一段管道被卡住，无法向上或向下移动，损害了整个井的完整性。钻探人员剪下钻头，用水泥填充井的底部。他们丢失了价值超过1500万美元的设备。但是，钻探人员挖了一个侧轨孔，挽救了该项目。在Liza达到目标的前一天晚上，Dyksterhuis和一位同事睡在埃克森美孚新建的休斯顿园区的不同会议室的地板上。

As soon as the drill bit hit Liza on May 5, 2015, real-time well data being fed back to Houston showed a sudden change in rock density. That meant Liza was stacked with fossil fuels. But it wasn’t immediately clear whether it was oil or gas. To really hit the big time, it had to be oil.
2015 年 5 月 5 日，钻头一击中 Liza，传回休斯顿的实时油井数据显示岩石密度突然发生变化。这意味着丽莎堆满了化石燃料。但目前尚不清楚它是石油还是天然气。要真正大展拳脚，它必须是石油。

A few hours later, the Deepwater Champion circulated drilling mud on its deck and shook out rock cuttings onto a conveyor belt. Kerry Moreland, a senior geoscientist and Dyksterhuis’ boss, noticed a familiar smell in the salty sea air. “Maybe like a gas station,” she says. She put on gloves and picked up some of the rocks. They were dripping in oil.
几个小时后，“深水冠军”号在其甲板上循环钻井泥浆，并将岩屑抖落到传送带上。克里·莫兰德（Kerry Moreland）是一位高级地球科学家，也是Dyksterhuis的老板，他注意到咸咸的海洋空气中有一种熟悉的气味。“也许像加油站，”她说。她戴上手套，捡起一些石头。他们滴在油里。

Crowley covers the oil industry from Bloomberg’s Houston bureau.
克劳利在彭博社休斯顿分社报道石油行业。